### Leveraging Air Rights for Reparative Development in Harlem
The Bernard & Spitzer School of Architecture

Alden Copley, John Hartmann, Alyssa Lewis, Matthew Morgan, Nusrat Sharmin and Tanha Tabassum Alsheikhdallah


This paper advances a proposal to leverage air rights, a novel vehicle for managing those air rights, and a programmatic structural strategy in order to develop affordable housing which creates lasting financial benefits for the residents of Harlem. We propose the creation of BitLot, a community corporation tasked with raising community capital, aggregating air rights, and developing affordable housing projects in those amassed spaces. The proposal requires the NYC Department of City Planning to privilege BitLot with a waiver on air right transfer restrictions within Harlem. Initial development costs not covered by community capital can be raised through federal credits, municipal subsidy, and low interest loans from socially motivated investors. Operating costs will be reduced through tax exemptions, freeing operating revenue to be distributed as dividends to investors. Residents with long tenures in Harlem, or with generational links to residents located in redlined areas of Harlem are eligible to receive developable assets they can invest in BitLot projects. In order to reduce construction costs and maximize community benefit, the working group proposes a parallel initiative, AirLot. This component involves developing a structural design strategy to rapidly generate contextually appropriate structures using a set of factors defined by the community. The combination of BitLot’s fluid use of air rights, community return products and an efficient structural design strategy promises to unlock millions of square feet for affordable housing, ensure resident ownership of new development, build community wealth, and enhance the character of Harlem’s built environment. 

This paper leverages ```pandas```, ```geopandas```, ```numpy```, and ```matplotlib``` to explore public datasets pertaining to buildings, energy usage, demographics, and speculative unit type in Harlem, NY.
